Welcome to this introductory
course on AWS DeepLens.
The world's first deep learning
enabled video camera
for developers.
I'm Jyothi Nookula and I'm
a senior product manager
on the DeepLens team.
Today, I'll show you how to get
started building AWS
DeepLens projects.
We'll look at the
device's hardware,
the architecture, and some
sample project templates.
At the end, I'll demonstrate
building a project using
the object detection
template from
the AWS DeepLens console.
Let's get started.
At Amazon, we have
been working on
machine learning for 20 years.
We know there's no
easy way for you
as a developer to learn
machine learning,
and test and
prototype your ideas.
So we decided to
put deep learning
into your hands literally.
AWS DeepLens is a wireless
enabled video camera
and a development platform that's
integrated with the AWS Cloud.
It lets you use the latest
artificial intelligence tools and
technology to develop
computer vision applications
based on deep learning models.
Before we start
building projects,
let's take a look at
the actual device.
What makes our AWS DeepLens
stand apart is the on-board
accelerator that is capable of
delivering 100
gigaflops of compute,
which means it can run 100
billion operations per second.
So how do you take this device
and actually build something?
For that, you need to understand
the general workflow for an
AWS DeepLens deployment.
To create and run an
AWS DeepLens project,
you typically use
Amazon SageMaker,
AWS lambda, and AWS green grass.
You'd use Amazon SageMaker
to train and validate
a custom machine learning model
or you could import
a pre-trained model.
AWS lambda functions in DeepLens
perform three
important operations.
Pre-processing,
capturing inference,
and displaying output.
Once a project is
deployed to DeepLens,
the model and the lambda function
can run locally on the device.
AWS DeepLens creates
a computer vision
application project
that consists of the model and
inference lambda function.
AWS Green grass can deploy
the project and a lambda
run-time to your AWS DeepLens,
as well as the software
or configuration updates.
This diagram illustrates how
these services come together.
First, when turned on,
AWS DeepLens captures
a video stream,
it produces two output streams.
The device stream, which
is the video stream
passed through without processing
and the project stream,
which contains the results of
the model's processing
video frames.
From there, the inference
lambda function
receives unprocessed
video frames and
then passes those
unprocessed frames to
the project's deep learning
model for processing.
Finally, the inference
lambda function receives
the process frames back from
the model and passes them
on in the project stream.
We don't really show
it in the diagram,
but AWS DeepLens is well
integrated with
other AWS services.
For instance, projects
deployed to AWS DeepLens
are securely transferred
using AWS Greengrass.
The output of AWS DeepLens
when connected to the Internet,
can be sent back
to the console via
AWS IoT and Amazon
Kinesis video streams.
So now, we're ready to
start building, right?
The reality is, most
of us don't have
the skills to build a convolutional
neural network model.
That's why AWS DeepLens
offers ready to deploy
sample projects,
which include a pre-trained
convolutional neural
network model
and the corresponding
inference function.
AWS DeepLens offers
seven sampled project
templates ready-to-use,
including templates such
as object detection,
hot dog/not hot dog,
artistic style transfer,
activity recognition,
and face detection.
With these sample projects,
you can get started with
machine learning in
less than 10 minutes.
These templated projects
can be edited and extended.
For instance, you could use
the object detection
project template
to recognize when your dog is
sitting on your couch
and have the application
send you an SMS to notify
you of this event.
Of course, you can
also create, train,
and deploy your own custom
model to AWS DeepLens.
The development platform
supports a variety of
deep learning
frameworks including
MXNet, TensorFlow, and Caffe.
Now, let's take it for a spin.
We'll deploy the object
detection project.
The project uses
the single shot multi
box detective framework
to detect objects with a
pre-trained resonate 15 network.
The network has been trained on
the Pascal VOC dataset and
can recognize 20
different objects.
The model takes the video
stream from your AWS DeepLens
as input and labels the
objects that it identifies.
It's a pre-trained
optimized model that
is ready to be deployed
to your AWS DeepLens.
After deploying it, you
can review the objects
your AWS DeepLens recognizes
around you through the console.
Let's see what it
looks like in action.
I'm starting here in the
AWS management console.
In the search bar,
I'm going to type DeepLens.
Now, we're looking at
the project screen.
If you don't see the
project list view,
click on the
''Hamburger menu'' on
the left and select projects.
Select "Create new
project" on the top right,
choose "User project template"
and "Object detection",
and scroll down the
screen to choose next.
I'm going to accept
the default values,
scroll to the bottom
and select "Create".
It can take a few moments for
the project creation
to fully complete.
You can verify that the
project was created
successfully once the
description field has a value.
You may need to refresh
your browser window if this
value isn't populating.
Now that the fields
are populated,
choose the radio button for
the project and select
deploy to device.
On the target device screen,
choose your device from the
list and select review.
Now, it's time to
review the details of
the deployment and
select "Deploy".
The process to
deploy the model to
your DeepLens can
take a few minutes.
You will know that
it is completed
when the blue banner
changes to green.
In the project output tab,
copy the unique topic
for your AWS DeepLens.
Choose AWS IoT console and
paste the unique topic,
to subscribe to a topic.
You can review the results
of DeepLens detecting
different objects in the room and
printing the
confidence code tool.
Notice, as I change what
the DeepLens can see,
it will report that at
the bottom of the screen.
Now, let's change it to a bottle.
Now, you have seen the
power of DeepLens.
I'm Jyothi Nookula with AWS.
Thanks for watching.